---
layout: post
title:  "2018 Roadmap"
date:   2018-01-02 06:05:08 -0800
categories: 2017, 2018, road map, youtube channel, youtube playlists
description: 2017 was a great year and 2018 will be even better. Here's how
  I'm going to improve the YouTube channel for viewers this year.
  In 2018 I'm going to focus on improving viewer interaction. I want to create more
  engaging content based on
---
<h2>2017 In Retrospect, 2018 Preview</h2>

I started the [Youtube Channel]({{ site.youtube_channel_url }}) without direction.

The channel's first video playlist,
[Programming A Personal Finance App](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLWuBW_Kn3apICKBVgxIoPXTAWebbaQKkG)
structured tutorials around the production of a personal finance website and various
topics related to frontend development, backend development and deployment of its components.

All videos are created unscripted and live. Occasionally, I'll redo a video if I feel there was too
much time wasted while debugging an issue. This happened less than 5 times in 2017. I enjoy this
format, and it keeps the time cost of production low. The live format will continue through 2018.

I'm going to add more structure to video production. There will be a schedule
of at least 1 week in advance to make it easier for viewers to watch live.

I also want to make it easier for viewers to request custom content. Presently, I've been
randomly bringing up the fact I make videos on any subject matter that users make requests
for. Going forward, I would like to guide users towards a content suggestion form at the
end of videos. Approved suggestions (so far over 80% of suggestions have resulted in a new video) will
be added to the schedule.

The #1 most-viewed video was [React & Material-UI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6whyzcUARuI) was
by user request. Thanks to user Shine Han for suggesting a video amounted to over 48% of
my channel's total view time!

<h3>2017 (July 16 - December 31) was a great year for the channel</h3>
<ul>
    <li>26,803 Minutes Watch Time</li>
    <li>7,015 Views</li>
    <li>9.6% Average View Percentage</li>
    <li>3:49 Minutes Average View Duration</li>
    <li>4 <a href="https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLWuBW_Kn3apIHuSZCWW5VY9nXnQzrqg05">Viewer Requests</a> Produced</li>
    <li>124 Subscribers Gained, 4 Subscribers Lost</li>
</ul>

<h3>2018 Goals</h3>
<ul>
    <li>New Videos - 2 Per Week</li>
    <li>Viewer Content Requests - 2 Per Month</li>
    <li>Average Percentage Viewed increased to 12%</li>
    <li>Subscriber Count Increased to 500</li>
</ul>

<h3>Moving Forward</h3>
In 2018 I'm going to focus on improving viewer interaction. I want to create more
engaging content based on their requests. I'll also make it easier for viewers
to see upcoming video times with a schedule added to the YouTube channel and this blog. 2018
is going to be a great year, perhaps even better than 2017!